# Blog 1: Roll-A-Ball

I started by creating a plan which could be used to roll the ball on. Then i had to create the wall to make sure the player couldnt roll of the plane, so i made sure to add collision as well. The next step was then to create the ball. In this case the sphere made most sense. The next step was creating a material which could be used on the "ball". Here i chose a simple grey color.
The next step was then to make the ball able to roll. To do that i needed to add a rigidbody which contains the physics. This made the ball feel like an actual object with gravity and weight / mass. 
Then i needed to make the ball able to actually roll. To do this i created the following attributes: MovementX, MovementY and speed. Then i added the OnMove function, which takes an input value and assigns to the movement attributes which the fixedupdate then uses to add force to the rigidbody which results in the sphere rolling. Then i had to create some pickups that the player can roll into and get some sort of points. Here i added a gameobject and made it a cube. I then added a box collider to the cube and the player so that they can collide and trigger the pickup. I then also added a rigidbody, but made it kinematic and turned off "use gravity" to make the pickups float and not fall to the ground. The next step was making them rotate. To do this i added a new script with one simple line which made he spheres rotate:  transform.Rotate (new Vector3 (15, 30, 45) * Time.deltaTime); I then assigned this script to the pickup and made it a prefab for further use in my game. Now i needed to make sure that the player can actually pickup the pickups. To do this i checked if the player collided with the tag "Pickup", removed  the pickup and incremented the score and updated the score text which i made sure to add so the player can actually see their score. Now i needed some enemies to introduce a challenge to the game. To do this i added a Mesh to the plane which plottet ai movement. Then i basically almost replicated my player object as an enemy but made a new script which uses a navMeshAgent to move the enemy towards the player by using the players position and setting the enemies destination to that. Then i also went into the player and made sure that if the player collided with an enemy, the game would stop and the player would lose. I then added the wincondition of getting all the pickups without colliding with the enemy and added a victory text. I then made a restart button which reloads the scene so that the player can play the game again. The last step was added some small ramps to make som obstacles to make the game more fun. Here i just created some boxes and remade the mesh so that the enemy "ai" is up to date with where it can move.